From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 65. Recorded
live Thursday, May 5th, 2011. Support for
Hanselman is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Travis about available
mass options. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
today a very special guest.
The man who invented the
word Hansel minutes. How's it
going? Travis? I'm doing pretty
well. Scott, how are you?
Okay. Out of curiosity, before
we start talking about network
attached, storage and appliances, do
you remember when you invented
this? I'd have to look
it up on my blog,
but I'm thinking it was
a many years ago sitting
in your office over here,
you know, Hey, we'll code
this thing up. It'll it'll
be done in like 10
minutes. And then, you know,
later on that week. Oh
no, no. 10 more minutes.
It's fine. So it's 10
Hansel minutes. So this is
in fact people think that
it means that I get
things done quickly. In fact,
it means that I have
awful estimates. Yeah. And it's
just estimates, right? 10 minutes.
Everything's 10 minutes. You got
to, got to make a
whole blog new blog engine
at 10 minutes. Give me,
give me 10 minutes. I
missed you. Good times. Good
times. So my windows home
server, which I had talked
about forever on my blog
is starting to die. You
have a home server and
I have one, but it's
just, it's getting really sick.
It's, it's hanging. It's, I'm
getting, I have four hard
drives in my windows home
server. And one of them
is going back and forth
from healthy to unhealthy. Have
you had any issues with
your home server now that
it is nearly five or
six years old? Actually I
did. And what my problem
turned out being is actually
a, a, an entire line
of unreliable drives in a
server capacity. I don't know
what kind of hard drives
you ended up extending yours
with. I ended up getting
some of these, you know,
nicely priced Western digital green
drives. And some of them,
it turns out are, you
know, perfect in a server
environment, but others, if there's
any sort of like heavy
IO, like SQL server, you
know, sort of thing, and
imparts, then they just fall
down. And so I had
problems where if you were
storing some photos or something,
everything was fine, but once
you start running defrag or
whatever, red lights start flashing
and, you know, fire shoots
out the back and you
know, your house explodes, it
ended up falling down pretty
hard. I didn't actually lose
any data, but you know
what, I did lose his
confidence in the whole solution,
even though it wasn't necessarily
the home server's fault or
the defrag program's fault or
anything, it was like, wow,
you know, this, this looks
like it's a fairly fragile
sort of a thing. And
that's actually what kicked me
off starting to look at
potentially other solutions. Cause you
know, if you did end
up losing data or something
like that, you know, you've,
you've read probably some of
the, the blogs with horror
stories about trying to recover
your server and certain things,
you know, aren't working or
whatever. And, and I was
also having some performance issues
where it wasn't, it wasn't
accessing data super fast, again,
potentially part of the, the
drive issue. But you know,
a home server is kind
of also a little notoriously
slow on the, on the
data access as well. Yeah.
So let's, let's talk about
why someone would want a
home server and then we'll
dig into some of the
issues that we've both had
and what we're doing about
it. I think performance is
definitely one. So why would
someone want a server in
their home for the first
and how is this different
from me? Just getting a
bigger, hard drive because I've
told a lot of people
have just said, Oh, we'll
just go and buy a
big, hard drive, hook it
up to your main computer
and problem solved. Well, honestly
my original desire for a
home server was to store
media. I have a fairly
sizeable DVD and movie library,
and it was getting kind
of to the point where
you couldn't really store it
in any sort of accessible
format. If I wanted to
browse through my movies or
watch something in particular, you're
looking through, you know, binder
upon binder of movies without
any covers or anything on
them because they just took
up so much space, media
storage is a pain. So
I started looking specifically to
store media, my music, my
movies, that sort of thing.
And I didn't go for
the larger hard drive because
I wanted all that stuff
accessible from any machine on
the network. And I didn't
want it to be subject
to, you know, I'm sitting
here surfing on, you know,
the web or whatever, and
something happens and I have
to reboot the machine, suddenly
all the rest of the
machines on the network, no
longer have access to that,
that media. And that's not
really an acceptable solution. So
it just, it just made
sense for me to start
looking at centralized servers and
the home server seemed like
it was a pretty reasonable
solution for that, especially with
all the additional features that
it offered, like, you know,
the image based backup and
the integration with, with windows
showing you network health status
and that sort of thing.
It was, it seemed pretty
slam dunk at the time.
Yeah. It seemed to me
that the primary reason that
I got a home server
was the image based backup
to people who aren't familiar
with them. I'm a windows
home server as a small
PC. That's an appliance. It
originally ran windows 2003, and
now it runs windows 2008
and it has been extensively
customized. And one of the
most impressive features of it
has been this image based
backup. So you basically install
a connector on all of
your machines and you have
a complete image. And if
you've ever restored from a
disaster with a home server,
it is amazing. I mean,
you literally back up in
time. I have you ever
had to do that? I
have not, but I've talked
to a few people who
have, have worked at, and
it's always been just super
simple, almost just like the
whole system restore points, sort
of a thing, you know,
boot up magic happens. And
you're back to where you
were at your last nightly
backups. So, you know, again,
very impressive. Yeah, it has
been, it has saved my
butt probably four times, including
just a couple of weeks
ago when I an SSD
died, you boot off a
CD, you pointed to the
home server, you pick the
time of day you wish
to go back to and
you're back and that's it.
And I've, I mean, I've
literally had like massive crash
buy a hard drive, plug
it in restore, keep working.
And, you know, I think
elapsed time, two hours kind
of thing. I don't know
how many Hanselman say all,
but it was, it was,
you know, w w w
I broke it in the
middle of the middle of
the day and I was
working by that evening. So
that, that of course is
not new. You've got things
like a Kronos, true image
and Norton Norton ghost, but
it was kind of the
first example of an extremely
clean populist restore process that
just works. So that was
Automated basis where you don't
even have to think about
it, it's kind of remote
and you set it up
once, set it and forget
it sort of a thing,
which was a big draw
for me. Right. And you
can do your whole house.
I think I had up
to seven machines running kind
of at the same time.
The second thing that was
amazing about home server was
the thing called the drive
extender. Can you talk to
me about scuzzy versus a
scuzzy rather, but raid raid
versus driving center and what
was, so why was that
so significant? So drive extender
was actually another one of
the selling points for me
in a classic sort of
a raid solution, you know,
raid being a redundant array
of independent disks. You have
to kind of know how
many disks you have. You
have to have them basically
match all the same size.
You have to, you know,
there's a lot of setup
and whatnot, and it's, it's
very fault tolerant depending on
which, which configuration you have,
but it's kind of like,
it's not very easily expandable
historically. So, you know, doing
that and, and setting all
that up, it's not quite
as slam dunk easy. Can
it be done yet? Can
it be done by, you
know, your mom or something
as simple as that? Probably
not, probably not so much
the beauty of the drive
extend or feature in windows
home server was you turn
windows home server off, you
plug a new drive in,
you, turn it back on
and you know, again, magic
happens and you can just
add this new drive to
this, this one unit unified
storage pool. So you don't
have to worry about, you
know, moving data off the
raid array, moving data back
on the rate array, trying
to extend the, you know,
the array size, that sort
of thing. You don't have
to worry about it. It's
just, you know, it's seamless
and very simple, which was
something that, again at the
time was offered only in
a couple of other products
and mostly a Unix or
Linux based and was not
something for, you know, somebody
who did like me who
wanted more of an appliance
that would just make things
happen so that I wouldn't
have to fiddle with it
or set a bunch of
stuff up. My wife can,
can work with it. And
it's, it's super easy if
something goes wrong, which it,
you know, it doesn't go
wrong, but if something goes
wrong, it's simple to fix.
As opposed to, you know,
me, a windows guy, not
really into the whole Unix
Linux world, it's, you know,
that would have taken me
a lot longer to fix
something if something happened. Right,
exactly. The driver said center
thing I can attest to
being amazing. I started out
with 500 gig, 500, yes,
500 gig drives. I had
three of them. And then
later I removed one of
them, which was trivial. You
basically just right. Click on
the drive, say, remove it
goes and make sure that
everything from the three drives
is now on two, you
add in a couple more
terabyte drives. And I'm currently
on my home server, I
have two, one terabyte drives
and two, 500 gig drives.
And it just, you know,
it just works. It's totally
fine. But the machine that
a lot of these homes
are, the new homes are,
was meant to be an
appliance. And it was sold
by partners like HP. The
machine tends to be a
little bit inexpensive and as
such a little bit underpowered,
I've got the original HP
media smart. And I have
one of those, I think
mine's the four 75 model.
Exactly. And I even went
so far as to break
the warranty and upgrade the
memory because it came with
a half gig of Ram.
Right. And I think I
upgraded it to two, but
it is notoriously underpowered because
anyone who just needs a
home server and a backup,
it's great. You want to
back up your photos and
backup your, you know, your,
your life. Fantastic. But I
also wanted to throw videos
on it and I wanted
to transcode or dynamically Incode
those videos I've got, I
have photographs going digital photographs
going back to 1998. So
we've got 14 years of
photos. Basically. I've got videos
of my kids birth in
various formats, you know, going
back five plus years and
I want to be able
to watch them on my
Xbox. So now suddenly my
simple backup solution starts becoming
more complicated. I need to
support multiple codecs, multiple video
codecs, multiple formats. I need
to be able to talk
this DNA. Was it DNA?
What's the, what's the thing.
Digital living network Alliance, I
believe is what that stands
for. Right. Which is a
fancy way of saying your
Xbox and your PlayStation can
talk to it using UPNP
in some standardized XML formats.
And, you know, it sounds,
sounds silly. And maybe, maybe
I'm going over the top,
but really being able to
view your photos and videos,
whenever you feel like it
on your big screen TV
using an appliance, like an
Xbox or PlayStation, or even
a wi is really cool.
And you know, I can't
tell you how many times
we've had folks over to
the house and said, Oh,
you want to see pictures
of such and such a
trip. And we fire up
the Xbox and boom, we're
watching them. So then that
becomes interesting. Those, those kinds
of disc intensive processor, intensive
activities suddenly became an issue
because the home server device,
not the product, but the
device was underpowered. Yeah. I
ran into a similar issues
trying to stream, you know,
DVDs off of the, off
of the server. You know,
you stream one DVD and
you don't bother fast-forwarding or
pausing or anything, and everything's
fine. But if you start
needing it to do some,
you know, major, random access
stuff, or you need to
start streaming something, that's a
little more, you know, maybe
high Def video, that sort
of thing. It definitely becomes
a bit of a performance
bottleneck. Exactly, exactly. So this,
this was an issue. So
then fast forward, a little
while, and home server as
a product goes from the
original home server to 2011,
I think they call it
windows home server 2011. And
it's, you know, it's, it's
all refreshed new UI bunch
of new features, but for
whatever reason, they got rid
of this drive, extended technology,
there were, there were rumors
that it was not reliable,
which, which I didn't find
to be the case, but
there were rumors that it
was unreliable. There were, what
else did you hear about
why they removed Travis gender?
I think that they, they
were talking about some, you
know, some of the performance
issues around it, having, you
know, when you w the
part of the drive extender
thing, I think was also
the file duplication and the,
when you, so, so that,
that was sort of their
version of raid that was
built in the drive extender,
right. Where you can right.
Click on a certain file
share and say, anytime you
store files in this particular
share, I want you to
actually store two copies of
the file on two different
disks. So if one disc
dies, there's another copy on
the other desk. I think
that they were saying, you
know, I remember early on
in the, in the home
server lifetime, there was a
bit of reliability around that
where the synchronization process was
corrupting some files. There was
some, there was a patch
that came out very quickly
that resolve that issue. But
I think that they were
talking about some of the
reliability, as well as the
performance on that. Yeah. Yeah.
I, that, I forgot about
the, the duplication issue. That,
that is one thing. There's
a process that runs in
the background that will do
that duplication. So when you
copy a big file, for
example, if you decide to
just go in, you know,
dump five, five gig files
on the machine, that it
needs to go and duplicate
those, so it will go
and do that work. And
that can take some time.
So, yeah, definitely there were,
there were, I understand all
of a sudden I'm going
to beat the engineering of
it. I mean, it's a
complicated thing. It's a big
feature. Somebody, some smart people
got to work on that.
You can't lose any data.
So they, anyway, they removed
that feature and that became
a big scandal. Everyone was
like, this is, this is
the death of the, of
the windows home server. Because
even though it has all
these features for, for many
people, that was the feature,
right. Drive extender was the
feature. And without it, all
the other stuff is, is,
is not a, a, a
distinguisher. Yeah. It was definitely
one of the huge selling
points for me over some
of the other, you know,
similarly priced NASA products, network
attached storage products, the ability
to just, you know, jam
in a new drive. And
like you were saying, swap
out one drive for a
new drive, that sort of
thing, without even really thinking
about losing data or anything
like that, or, you know,
complex mounting and unmounting or
anything like that. I mean,
it was, it was just
so drop dead simple. And
that was, you know, one
of the top five things
that just totally said, windows
home server. So the way
to go for me, You
know, and I think that,
that what you just said,
the idea that it was
drop dead simple, it was
like a network attached storage
for, you know, your mom,
That's absolutely what it was.
And, you know, it's funny,
actually, one of the stories
that I always told that
was totally true was I
was hiring a guy to
put in our backyard. And
while he was looking around,
he happened to see the
home server and ask where
I worked. And the old
conversation discussed where he says,
well, gosh, you know, I've
got five machines at my
small office is small landscaping
company. And I said, well,
you know, I could probably
set that up for you.
So I basically bought him
a home server and set
it all up and we
traded, so we did a
bartering thing where he puts
in my backyard in, and
I traded him for our
home server. And, And that
took you what, like, you
know, two hours or something
to put in, I'm sure
It was two or three
hours basically. I mean, it
was literally by the home
server go and install the
back of software and all
of his machines and then
pop in a couple of
drives. And that was pretty
much, it, it was, it
was ridiculously easy, but, you
know, for him, it was
a miracle and wonderful and
amazing. And, you know, I
don't even think he realized
he probably could have done
it himself. That's how it
kind of easy. It was.
Yeah, absolutely. You know, and
then of course, even once
you handed it over, one
of those concerns, when you
do something like that, is
are they going to be
able to maintain this themselves
and the answer and now
in that case was absolutely.
Yes, because it is literally
that simple. It's just, you
know, you don't have to
be a tech person even
just plug it in, hook
it up. It's as simple.
It's like Xbox simple. It
is so appliance oriented. It
was so nice. Exactly. Exactly.
Hi, this is Scott coming
to you from another place
in time. Are you using
agile practices to manage your
software development? There's lots of
tools in the market that
manage the steps of a
project, but most of them
focus on individual roles, get
ready for a solution that
caters for the success of
the whole team. Guys at
Tellerik introduced team pulse. It's
an agile project management tool.
That'll help you gather ideas,
estimate plan, track progress in
a common workspace. Finally, companies,
regardless of their size can
use a lightweight and convenient
tool that makes all the
stakeholders work as a United
team. Even if they're in
different countries by combining intuitive
user interface and the power
server light team poles removes
the roadblocks that you typically
face and applying agile in
an effective manner, no more
lost data, no disparate systems,
no lack of critical analytics
regarding the health and philosophy
project. So if yourself, you
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Tellerik. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes. If
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
So all of this preamble
to the point where my
home server is dying, the
product is fine. The OS
is healthy, but my hard
drives are starting to go,
you know, all hard drives
have a MTBF a meantime
before failure. And that typically
is five years. If you're,
if you're lucky and I'm
somewhere around five years and
you know, you can always
look at your hard drive.
Look at the top of
it. They usually have a
born on date and manufacturing
date, minor dying. And I
had to ask myself, do
I want to go and
buy more hard drives and
keep going with this? Do
I want to upgrade to
an all new, a home
server 2011? Or do I
want to try something else
that that's come out in
the last couple of years,
then that might give me
the more, the, the power
that I want. Am I
my primary frustration with the
home server? Hasn't been with
the software it's been with
the, the product from HP,
just being not powerful enough.
I want not only a
big, giant array of disks,
but I also would like
some processor power. Like that's
not on my main desktop
so that I can go
and have a do some
work for me. Absolutely. Yeah.
Some of that video transcoding
and audio transcoding and things
that you're mentioning, definitely you
need a little more, a
little more beef to it
than, than just, you know,
500 megs of Ram with
minors level processor. Right? So
I went and I bought
a Dromo F S a
couple of days ago because
their marketing department is fantastic
and they, they seem to
have a very impressive product.
I brought, and I was
warned on, on Twitter that
this was probably a mistake
because the drill bows are
notoriously weak and underpowered. And
I've heard that they are
very slow and you know
that I run gigabit ethernet
at the house here. So
I've got the whole house
wired. I don't like to
use wireless. I can avoid
it. Everything I do is,
is wired. Cause if I'm
moving any, anything of any
size around even a three
or four megabyte image, you
know, gigabits always just going
to kick wireless is, but
yeah, but I bought it
anyway. So I went and
I got the darn thing
and guess how long it
lasted, What, you know, like
a half a day or
something before we print that
back in a month, Pretty
much I got the entire
thing hooked up, put all
the drives in half a
day later, I was like,
this is BS. It was
so slow. I, I, you
know, I'm used to transfer
speeds upwards of 30 to
50, 60, 70 megabytes, a
second mega bits make a
bytes. And I move a
lot of VMs around and
I've got a couple of
terabytes of data, you know,
loading this thing up was
going to take an eternity.
Are you getting that 75
or whatever megabytes a second
from your home server, The
home server with jumbo frames
turned on. If you use
gigabit ethernet, remember that TCP
IP and these things were
kind of developed in a
time that did not expect
the kinds of speeds that
we're getting right now. But
the easiest thing that someone
who has a gigabit ethernet
at their home can do
to get faster speeds is
first confirm that you've got
the latest version of windows
because you want to use
SMV too, but then go
into your network adapter in
the driver settings and turn
on jumbo frames and set
your size to, to nine
K 9,000 bytes. And that
I've got a whole blog
post on this. If you
search for gigabit ethernet enhancement.
And I was regularly on
the little crappy HP getting
50, 60 megabytes, a second
copies. Very nice, very nice.
But I was getting 15,
20, maybe on the
and if I copied two
things at once, it would
drop down to like three.
Oh, that's that's just painful.
Yeah. So that was not
only painful. It was absolutely
unacceptable. It was Holy and
woefully underpowered. So it went
home Home to home to
the . I went home
to the dribble home. I,
I, I sent it back
and, and, and surprisingly, they
were very cool about it
and they, they didn't make
me pay a, a restocking
fee. So then I did
a little more research because
I think that the Dobo
was basically a panicked maneuver
on my part. You know,
I needed something. I felt
I was going to lose
photos pretty soon. I knew
my hard drive was, you
know, there were literally days
left in my hard drive.
So I went and I
got a, I did a
little more research. The choices
then were either a Q
nap, a build it myself
and use a Linux system
like free NAS free NAS
NAS, basically, right. Go and
buy a shuttle, PC little
tiny one at Fry's electronics
for 500 bucks, 300 bucks
even, and then use a
free Linux system or one
called a Synology. Now you
bought a recently bought a
new NAZ drive. W how
did you make your decision
and what did you end
up with? So the stuff
that I looked at, I
actually looked at a lot
of the things that you
mentioned. I also looked at
some of like the net
gear readiness and Seagate black
armor. And I mean, I
spent probably a good month
or so, because I didn't
have quite the urge the
sense of urgency around it,
that it sounds like you
had, I narrowed it down
based on reviews and that
sort of thing too. The
Synology the DRO bow, and
one of the net gear
products, I got re I
exed out the Dromo because
again, I was reading reviews
of things that sounded just
like you had where it
was performance issues. And then
it was down to the
net gear. The Synology I
ruled out free Nass pretty
early on, because part of
my decision criteria was I
want an appliance. I want
just like the home server.
I want to be able
to plug it in, not
think about it, let it
run and do its thing.
And I've messed around with,
with free Nass a little
bit before. And, you know,
it's one of those things
where if you don't mind
sort of being, you know,
having that be a hobby,
you know, tinker with it
every once in a while
to check out why this
is working, or that's not
working and stuff, it seemed
like it was going to
be less than appliance. And
then some of these other
things, and I also wanted
some ability, some supportability, right?
So if I have a
problem, I don't want to
have to be spending three
days going through forums and,
you know, asking people in
IRC chat rooms and all
these other things, how to
fix this thing. I want
to be able to call
somebody and say, Hey, you
sold me an appliance, the
appliance isn't working, and I
need you to help me
fix it. So I got
it down to that. And
then the net, the net
gear and the Synology, and
the reason I, I ruled
out the net gear was
actually expandability the Synology that
I ended up getting the
DSP 10, 10 plus, which
I think is last year's
model of what you have.
Now. It has five drive
bays in it to start
with where the net gear
product I was looking at
only at four. And the
Synology has an expansion port
on it where you can
actually attach another sort of
drive Bay house thing that
has another five bays in
it. So you could have
up to a total of
10 disks in this thing.
Whereas the net gear, there
was no, you know, he
sat a plug, there was
no USB on it. You
were stuck with the four
drives. So knowing that I
was trying to, you know,
store literally, you know, 800
plus DVD images, not compressed
into, you know, WMV or
anything like that, but actually
full on video, Ts rips
of the disks. I knew
I was going to need
that extent expandability. So I
went ahead and went with
the Synology product And which,
which, which Synology number did
you go with It? Mine
is the DS 10, 10
plus. So it's a one
zero one zero. Plus if
you actually go to their
website, I think right now
they're advertising the 15, 11
plus it looks like it's
the same, the same body
on it and everything. So
it's basically the same thing
that you're looking at there.
But I think the, the
new part of the 1511
is that you can have
two of those extension boxes.
So you can have up
to 15 drives instead of
just the 10 drives that
mine is quote unquote limited
to, I bought the DS
15, 11 plus, and they
have a whole series of
these. The 15, 11 plus
is kind of mid, mid
range in the small business
server area of their, of
their site. They also have
home to small office. So
I did go a little
bigger than maybe appropriate, but
it will do up to
15 drives, like you said,
so this particular one, you
can have the extenders I
put in to me for
two terabyte drives. It'll also
support the new three terabyte
drives. So you can have
up to 45 terabytes on
this particular thing, and it
runs up a custom, you
know, Unix, distro that they
call DSM three. I think
I'm running DSM 3.1, actually.
Yeah, I think it's big.
Yeah. DSM is disk station
manager, but their product line
being disk stations. Yeah. And
the whole thing is run
over this very kind of
Ajax web interface. Although they
have a series of iPhone
applications as well for looking
at your files and managing
them, they, they usually anticipate
that people are going to
have multiple ones of these
set up. So if you
outgrow one of them, you
can make additional volumes or
you can make additional disk
stations. So apparently they're very
popular in universities and places
like that. So right now
I've got, let me see
here, I've got, I've got
5.5 0.4 terabytes free, even
though I put eight terabytes
of disc in and that's
because of the disc duplication.
So they basically have their
own drive extender. And like
you said earlier, there are
a number of vendors that
have their own file systems
that do a drive, extender
like experience. So because the
feature that I wanted in
windows, home server, isn't there
anymore, the drive extend, or
the ability to add any
drive of any size to
an array. That's kinda my
primary reason for going with
the Synology because I feel
like I get drive connect
back. So are you using
then the, I think they
call it hybrid raid solution
that, that on the phonology
disc, that's their sort of
drive extender thing. If I
recall correctly or use, is
that what you're They have
all the standard rate options
and then they have their
Synology hybrid raid, which is
what they call their drive
extender. Excellent. Yeah. I, I
actually have fi I have,
I filled mine up the
day on day one with
two terabyte drives. And so
since I had it already
filled up and everything, and
I figured there was going
to be a pretty reasonable
investment costs to get another,
you know, five drives and
the little Bay extended thing,
I just went ahead and
went straight with the raid
five. I see. So, yeah.
Okay. So you went with
a technology you understood more,
felt comfortable with, with the
knowledge that you can have
another volume on a separate
extension on a, on a,
on a sidecar. Yes, exactly.
So things that I've been
impressed with with this is
it has all the usual
things you'd want. It has
FTP and it has dynamic
DNS. It has the media
server. It can pretend to
be an iTunes server. It
has audio and video streaming.
It can be a, I
don't use it, but it
could be a bit torrent,
a service you can actually
source bit torrent and B
make it be a download
station. Now, a couple of
the things that I've been
extremely surprised about that I
did not see coming. It
has a thing called surveillance
station and I've blogged about
my IP phones. I've got
20 IP cameras. I've got
a number of Panasonic webcams
around the property here. They
have a thing called surveillance
station that magically knew the
brand of my phones. Again,
I keep saying fun, magic
number, the brand of my
camera, connected to them over
IP, and then can now
record them. So if you
had a small business and
you had a number of
inexpensive, a hundred dollar cameras
scattered around your business, the
surveillance station within use the
NAS storage to store effectively
a DVR digital video recorder,
many, many hours of video
from your, your, your camera.
So suddenly my cameras, which
right now stream live, but
only record the last few
minutes could potentially, if I
left the property for a,
you know, a couple of
days, I could even store
a week of a video
from multiple places. So it,
it really expanded the abilities
of what I already had,
which I thought was pretty
amazing. That is pretty cool.
I haven't actually used that
specific feature on it yet.
And I was going to
start searching around to see
if somebody had, and it
sounds like it's a pretty
impressive feature there. Yeah. The
only thing I didn't like
was that by default, you
only get one camera. So
you have to basically buy
licenses to up to like
20 cameras or whatever their,
their main number is. So
they basically, they tease you
with one license and you
pay a couple of bucks
for the rest. But if
I was running a small
business and I wanted that
kind of functionality, I I've
already got it. I don't
have to go and spend
thousands of dollars more on
IP surveillance, camera equipment, which
is an investment. The other
thing that it's got that
I'm impressed with is you
can actually back up directly
to S3. So I was
able to go up to
Amazon, sign up for an
account, make a total, a
bucket to put all of
your S three storage in
there, and you can back
up directly to the cloud.
So right now it's backing
up 68, 68 gigabytes of
photos up into the S3
system. Interesting. I also haven't
done that because I figured,
you know, I've got what,
like a 10 terabytes on
it at seven and a
half or so in the,
in the, in the, in
the partition, after you account
for the rate overhead. And
I think I've got like,
you know, five terabytes or
something of a DVD ribs.
So I didn't, I haven't
bothered working on trying to
back those up to the
cloud. Cause I've got the
original media anyway. No, I
don't count those. You, you
have the DVDs, you have
a backup. Yeah. And I
figured, you know, even if
I was to back it
up, what's 5.4 terabytes going
to cost me at Amazon.
Right. That's going to, it's
going to be just astronomical.
So I just decided not
to. Yeah, it's actually, it's
less than you'd think, but
it is expensive. I think
68 gigs is going to
cost me like four or
five bucks a month, but
you're right. I mean, it
is, it is, there is
a cost there, but of
course I've also got external
drives. So what I'll be
doing is continuing with my
existing backup strategy and actually
what we're running out of
time. So I'll just close
with this. What I'm doing
now is I've got the
Synology 15, 11, I've got
eight terabytes in it. I've
got five available. I went
and I got an inexpensive
version of Acronis true image.
I'm backing up my main
desktop and all the PCs
in the house on a
schedule twice a week with
a Kronos, except for my
work machine, which is backed
up daily. So I've got
disc images of my system
going to the, the Synology
I've got personal, personal files,
family videos, and family photos,
all going to  and
they've got all sorts of
choices for encryption and such.
Then I'm backing up the
Synology itself to a multi
terabyte, external drive of which
I have to. And then
I just go back and
forth to the, to the
bank every month with an
offsite backup sounds complicated, really
not complicated once it's set
up. I haven't, I haven't
given it any thought. And
I was very impressed with
this particular device. So I
recommend this analogy for people
to check out if you
don't need drive extender. I
certainly recommend the home server
and I don't mean that
tongue in cheek. And I
don't mean it as a,
as a Microsoft shill. I
mean, it's a great product.
It's just, it totally sucks
that they removed the drive
extended functionality, but I don't
think my dad needs that
the two terabyte drive is
huge. I'd probably set up
hardware rate or something, but
I don't see if he
needs that. I agree. I
I'm, I've still got my
home server. I love my
Synology. It really just kind
of depends on what you
need. If you still just
want a little bit of
storage, you know, and you're
not too worried about the
drive extender home server is
still a fantastic product. Yeah.
Cool. So thank you very
much, Travis, for chatting with
me today about the network
attached storage. And I'm glad
that we both are happy
with our, our new Synology
choices. So thanks for having
me. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. I'll
see you again next week.